JRL Messages 3.1.0 - Reliable alerts, verified Wake Mac, quieter help

Mac installer hotfix (August 15, 2026)

- A protected com.apple.MobileSMS preferences domain no longer aborts setup.
  The App Nap request is optional; failure is reported as a warning while the
  launchd watchdog, power settings, and Automation self-test continue.

What this release fixes

There were two different missed-message symptoms and they now have separate
repair paths:

1. A text exists on the iPhone but not yet in Messages on the Mac. Windows
   cannot query a row that the Mac has not received. Wake Mac works because
   restarting Messages forces that upstream connection to recover. Recover
   and an unproductive F5 check now escalate to the same guarded Wake path.
2. A text is already in the Windows list, but no minimized popup or sound
   appears. This was a Windows presentation problem: a lost local signal had
   no periodic replay, rich popups had no sound, full stacks were sometimes
   acknowledged without display, and the window exited when X was clicked.
   All four paths are fixed.

Notification reliability

- The viewer independently sweeps the durable delivery ledger every 2.5
  seconds. Agent IPC is now an acceleration hint, not a single point of
  failure.
- Rich popups play one explicit configurable sound per alert burst and use a
  taskbar flash when the conversation is not visibly active.
- Popup presentation returns Shown, Queued, or Unavailable. A ledger event is
  never marked complete after refusal. Cards and every verification code queue
  when three cards are already visible instead of being discarded.
- A transient database failure while acknowledging a shown card is caught and
  retried without replaying the sound.
- Minimized/hidden windows are never mistaken for a visible conversation.
- X hides the viewer to the notification area by default. The tray menu has
  Open, Settings, and Quit. If Windows has no usable tray,
  X exits normally rather than hiding an unrecoverable window.
- Native notification clicks and rich-popup clicks reopen the right chat.
- Test alert now exercises the selected style and the sound setting.

Tooltips and UI

- The distracting tooltip attached to the entire conversation list is gone.
- Help tips can be Show each twice (default), Always, or Off in Settings.
- The two-show count is persistent for stable controls, one hover counts once,
  and tips are suppressed during clicking, dragging, and text selection.
- Notification card geometry scales with text size and stacks are clamped to
  the usable screen.
- Settings now exposes alert sound and close-to-tray explicitly.

Agent, sending, and upgrade safety

- Both long-running singleton locks now have an infinite stale timeout, as Qt
  requires. The old 30-second value could permit duplicate windows or agents.
- Outbox claiming is one atomic conditional update. Even if legacy duplicate
  agents exist, only one can cross the send boundary for a queued row.
- Wake Mac acquires a durable Mac-maintenance lease atomically with its outbox
  check. A send queued immediately after the button remains queued until the
  Messages restart is safe; it cannot slip through the old count/check gap.
- Wake no longer reports "nothing held back" just because its timer expired.
  It requires a successful post-restart reconciliation, extends the check once
  on a slow link, and reports an honest warning if verification never finishes.
- The supervisor has its own per-user singleton, remains resident when it
  adopts an existing agent, monitors a durable heartbeat, and checks a clean
  stop every 0.5 seconds for reliable handoff.
- Stop waits for endpoint shutdown. install.bat stops before changing the
  environment, also finds an agent started from another extracted folder, and
  requires an exact-version hello after launch.
- In-app version handoff waits for the real agent disconnect and retries the
  supervisor until a matching version answers; it no longer relies on a fixed
  2.2-second delay.
- The Socket.IO polling dependency (requests) is now installed explicitly.

Reconciliation hardening

- Suspiciously short bounded ROWID windows receive a second read and are
  merged by ROWID. A sparse retry cannot overwrite an earlier complete copy.
- The newest 200 Mac ROWIDs are independently re-audited every 30 seconds,
  catching old-dated iCloud insertions and healing recent window omissions.
- A durable rolling archive audit revisits one older 100-ROWID window each
  minute, so a row omitted twice is still repaired after it leaves the tail.
- A lower/empty Mac maximum must be seen three times before the durable cursor
  or notification floor is reset. One temporary empty database during a
  Messages relaunch cannot poison progress or generate historical alerts.
- Transient incomplete pages keep the authoritative ROWID path armed rather
  than disabling it for the session. Protocol fallback is periodically
  re-probed.
- The recent-head audit now re-upserts known messages, repairing edited text
  and attachments that became complete after their first sparse response.
- Initial sync will not ingest silently before the notification floor is
  durably frozen.

Mac package

- The liveness job runs every 2 minutes. The local daily restart is now an
  explicit opt-in because a Mac-only schedule cannot fence the Windows
  outbox; guarded Windows Auto Wake is the safe default. When enabled, both
  jobs share one lock and the daily action waits up to 90 seconds for a tick.
- A restart captures the old Messages PID, waits for exit, uses a bounded TERM
  fallback, requires a different new PID, and requires an AppleScript response
  before writing success. Merely accepting an `open` request is not success.
- Tick and restart have separate persistent error markers. `--status` shows
  the last verified tick, last verified restart, and unresolved errors.
- The installer validates its schedule, lints both plists, resolves the real
  Messages bundle ID for an optional App Nap request, unloads old jobs before atomic replacement,
  and verifies launchd-context Automation access. With --daily-restart it
  also performs one controlled restart test; the default does not interrupt
  Messages. `--no-daily-restart` unloads an already running daily job.

Upgrade steps

1. If upgrading from 3.0.0, restart Windows once. The old stale-lock defect may
   already have created background copies that cannot all be reached through
   the one current pipe. This one reboot clears them permanently.
2. Extract the ZIP into a permanent folder and run install.bat.
3. Start JRL-Messages.bat and confirm v3.1.0 in the title/settings.
4. Copy the mac folder to the Mac and rerun:
      bash install-jrl-keepalive.sh --with-power
   This installs the safe liveness-only default. A local daily restart is
   available with --daily-restart, but guarded Windows Auto Wake is preferred.
5. In BlueBubbles, confirm Start on boot and Keep macOS Awake are both on.
6. In JRL Settings, choose the notification style, leave Alert sound enabled,
   choose the Help tips policy, and press Test alert with the app minimized.

Important self-test note

Apple can mark a message sent to the same Apple identity as "from me." Those
messages intentionally appear in the list without a normal incoming alert.
Use Settings > Test alert to verify popup/sound behavior, and use Verify line
to measure end-to-end relay timing.
